7. Advance Questions

Q. What is multi-threading?
A. Multithreading in Java is a process of executing multiple threads
simultaneously.
A thread is a lightweight sub-process, the smallest unit of processing.
Multiprocessing and multithreading, both are used to achieve
multitasking.
However, we use multithreading than multiprocessing because threads
use a shared memory area. They don't allocate separate memory area so
saves memory, and context-switching between the threads takes less
time than process.

Q. What is difference between Thread and runnable?
A.
Thread
Thread is a class. It is used to create a thread.•
It has multiple methods including start() and run()•
Each thread creates a unique object and gets associated with it.•
Runnable
Runnable is a functional interface which is used to create a thread.•
It has only abstract method run()•
Multiple threads share the same objects.

Q. What is Synchronization?.
A. - Synchronization in java is the capability to control the access of
multiple threads to any shared resource.
Java Synchronization is better option where we want to allow only one
thread to access the shared resource.
The synchronization is mainly used to
To prevent thread interference.1.
2. To prevent consistency problem.


Q. What is difference between sleep() and wait()?.
A. Wait() - The thread releases ownership of this monitor and waits
until another thread notifies threads waiting on this object's monitor to
wake up either through a call to the notify() method or the notifyAll()
method. The thread then waits until it can re-obtain ownership of the
monitor and resumes execution.
Sleep() - This method causes the currently executing thread to sleep
(temporarily cease execution) for the specified number of milliseconds.
The thread does not lose ownership of any monitors. It sends the current
thread into the “Not Runnable” state for a specified amount of time.

Q. Difference between final and finally and finalize ?
Q. Define System.out.println() ?
Q. What is Destructor?
Q. What is dynamic method dispatch?
Q. What is copy constructor?
Q. What is file handling?
A. File Handing in java comes under IO operations. Java IO
package java.io classes are specially provided for file handling in java.
Some of the common file handling operations are:
Create file
Delete file
Read file
Write file
Change file permissions
